[Alerting V2][Serverless & 9.5][M2] Adds docs for action policies and workflows (#6525)
elastic/docs-content: explore-analyze/alerting/experimental-alerting-system/action-policies/reduce-notification-noise.md

---
navigation_title: Reduce notification noise
applies_to:
  stack: experimental 9.5+
  serverless: experimental
products:
  - id: kibana
description: "How to reduce notification noise in the experimental alerting system using acknowledge, snooze, and deactivate to silence alert episodes."
---

# Reduce notification noise from the {{alerting-v2-system}} [reduce-notification-noise]

Several mechanisms within the {{alerting-v2-system}} can silence notifications for an alert episode. When an alert episode is silenced, the dispatcher stops processing it before any action policy matching, grouping, or frequency evaluation runs.

This page covers when to use each silencing mechanism and how the scope of an alert episode snooze differs from the scope of an action policy snooze. For an overview of where this fits in the full dispatch cycle, refer to [About action policies](about-action-policies.md).

## Silencing mechanisms [silencing-mechanisms]

> Three mechanisms let you silence notifications, each at a different scope:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following mechanisms let you silence notifications, each at a different scope:
```
Since there are 4 in the table :)

| Deactivate | Per alert episode | You want to manually close an alert episode that hasn't recovered automatically. Deactivating marks the alert episode as inactive and stops notifications for it. Unlike acknowledge, this closes the alert episode rather than silencing it while leaving it active. |

Each mechanism is stored as a separate document in `.alert-actions`, so the full gating history for an episode is queryable in Discover.

### Snooze scope

Snooze applies at the group level (by `group_hash`), not per individual alert episode. When you snooze one alert episode, every alert episode sharing the same group (all rows with the same `rule_id` and `group_hash`) is silenced for the duration. Snoozing one row in the alerts table silences the entire series for that rule.

<!-- TODO: Uncomment when PR #6524 (alerts) is merged:
For instructions on snoozing and unsnoozing single or multiple episodes, refer to [View and manage alerts](../alerts/view-and-manage-alerts.md#snooze-episode).
-->

> ## Related pages

Reviewer 2: The "Related pages" section appears at the end of all the Notifications and actions pages. Not sure how useful or confusing this might be, considering that these sections are constantly visible in the left nav tree?

Author: I think it's helpful for users who aren't referring to the nav to move around the doc. ~That said, this page is the only one with the "Related pages" section. Every other page about notifications and actions has a "Next steps" section to guide users towards the next part of their flow.~ (Was thinking of the overview docs in the other PR)
